+++
title = "Lenovo T-480 V. MacBook Pro M1 14\""
date = 2024-05-26
+++

## Background information

### The specs

| Component | Name       |
| --------- | ---------- |
| CPU       | I7-8550U   |
| RAM       | 8GB        |
| Storage   | 256GB NVME |
| Display   | FHD IPS. Stock           |

Battery life of a T480 with the default battery configuration
- 24Wh internal
- 24Wh external

I'm using Arch Linux with `tlp` installed. With the following changes:
- CPU energy performance policy on battery = balance_performance
- CPU turbo disabled

## Impressions

I thought I wouldn't be able to deal with the battery life and that I would be plugged to the wall the entire time, but it's not as bad as I thought it would be.

My most recent experience concerning battery life with an x86 machine before this Thinkpad was an Asus G14 gaming laptop. I couldn't remember the exact year but it had an RTX 3060 and a Ryzen CPU. I enjoyed using that laptop alongside my Macbook Air M1 at the time. I eventually had to return it because I realized how little I gamed and how bad of an investment it was.

## Battery Life

After years of using Apple silicon laptops, It was hard to get used to . I found myself charging the laptop multiple times throughout the day. The charging feels pretty slow too.

### Trackpad

The trackpad doesn't feel good at all, especially the scrolling. What I've found that works for me was using the track point to scroll since I didn't have to rub my fingers all over the trackpad and it felt pretty ergonomic

### Keyboard
Although the travel is higher than the Macbook, it just doesn't have that satisfying tactility.
It sort of feels like a plastic bag around my fingers. I was hoping I would fall in love with it since it's a crowd-favorite

### Performance

I can see the sluggishness catching up to this laptop when I watch a YouTube video. I don't mind it but it's going to bother me when I'm in the zone.

### Speakers

The speakers were an afterthought. Vocals are just hard to understand. Music shouldn't be played out of these speakers.

### Display

I can't pinpoint whether it's the size of the screen or the colors or could be just that it's so much more different than what I've been used to but it's been a long time since I've gotten a headache from looking at the screen.
I'm not a fan of matte screens. It doesn't look like glass, it looks more plastic to me. I doubt it helps with glares.
If I can find a legitimate source for the coveted 400-nit N140HCG-GQ2 display, then I'll think about getting it replaced. The colors are so dull.

## Operating System of Choice

### Windows
Many sources say that Windows does a better job at maintaining battery life and I understand their arguments. It was hard for me to tell whether Windows keeps the laptop alive for much longer because the fans tend to spin up a whole lot more. I've already daily-driven Windows for quite a bit of time so it's not Windows initialization causing the uptick in power draw.

### Linux

I settled with Fedora-39. I wanted a system I could start using for college the next day
I wouldn't have minded using Windows just because it was convenient and I didn't have to worry about any weird low-level system issues.
Customizing Linux has been a blast but it's been a waste of time to be honest.

# 

## Upgrades

I bought a 16GB 2400mhz stick for the 2nd RAM slot. I doubt I'll ever use all 24GB unless I'm running multiple docker containers.
The 8GB sticks were about $12 cheaper, but I don't mind paying that extra amount for another 8GB

# Selling it

I initially offered my co-worker Jesse $170 to buy the Thinkpad from me. He gave it some thought but I guess he mentioned it to another co-worker, Mark, since he's in the market for a new laptop.

Although this laptop was perfectly capable for my needs, the battery life and display were a contributing factor to me going back to the Macbook that I initially wanted to sell.

I can deal with Windows and its differences but the general experience of using the laptop is subpar.

I'll miss the track point.
